CLIENTS


Air Force Civil Engineer Center



General Services Administration



Department of Veterans Affairs



Office of the Secretary of Defense



Department of Agriculture Rural Development



Department of the Treasury



Small Business Administration

Department of Housing and Urban Development
Government National Mortgage Association	Department of Education
Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC)
Asset Class: Energy, Military Housing Privatization Initiative (MHPI), Multifamily, and Commercial Real Estate Projects including Office Buildings, Retail, Biotech and Research Facilities, and Community Facilities

Role: Real Estate Support and Financial Advisor – Prime Contractor

Period: 2001 – Present

Emax is currently a prime contractor providing Real Estate Support Services (RESS) to the U.S. Air Force (AF) for real estate and energy transactions on underutilized real property.  Specifically, Emax advises the AFCEC on its Value-Based, Enhanced-Use Lease, and Military Housing Privatization Initiative transactions by using expertise in real estate investment, finance, project management, energy, office buildings, retail and other commercial real estate projects.

[Back to the Top]
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) – Office of Asset Enterprise Management

Asset Class: Co-Generation and Energy Plants, Office Buildings, Parking Garages, Multifamily Housing, Transitional Housing Projects, Homeless Shelters, Low-Cost Senior Housing, Community Facilities and Other Commercial Real Estate Projects

Role: Financial and Post-Transaction Advisor – Prime Contractor under Oversight and Monitoring Contract; 100% Subcontractor to Ernst & Young; and Prime Contractor under Transaction Advisor Contracts

Period: 2003 – Present

Emax is currently a prime subcontractor providing post transaction support services to the Office of Asset Enterprise Management (OAEM) for the oversight and monitoring of the VA’s Enhanced Use Leasing program.  The EUL program includes a portfolio of 56 completed projects, for which Emax monitors compliance of lease requirements and assists in developing an annual EUL consideration report.

[Back to the Top]
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) – Asset Sales Office

Asset Class: HUD-Held Single Family, Multifamily and Healthcare Mortgage Loans

Role: Program Financial Advisor – Prime Contractor and Subcontractor

Size: $7 Billion+ Program

Period: 1999 – Present

Since 1999, Emax has served both as a prime and subcontractor to the Asset Sales Office as the Program Financial Advisory (PFA).  In this role, Emax supports, assists and advises FHA in administering the asset sales program through the disposition of single family, multifamily and healthcare notes via competitive transactions offered to private investors, units of local government and non-profits; and direct sales offered to units of local government and non-profit entities.  The PFA contract is currently an 8(a) set-aside, for which Emax is a subcontractor.

[Back to the Top]
U.S. Department of Treasury – Office of Financial Stability (OFS) Asset Class: Residential and Commercial Loans and Mortgage-Backed Securities

Role: Program Financial Advisor – Subcontractor to Ernst & Young

Period: 2009 – Present

Since 2009, Emax, as a Program Financial Advisor, has supported the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Financial Stability (OFS) and Office of Financial Management (OFM) in conducting compliance reviews of lending programs, evaluating mortgage assistance initiatives, and reviewing internal controls. Emax has assisted in the development and implementation of OFS’ operational and internal controls policies and procedures.

[Back to the Top]
Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) Asset Class: Single- and Multiclass Securities Backed by Government-Guaranteed Single-Family and Multifamily Loans

Role: Securitized Transaction Financial Advisor – Subcontractor to Ernst & Young

Period: 2007 – 2013

As a member of the Securitized Transaction Financial Advisor, Emax performed capital market and mortgage research to advise Ginnie Mae on securitization programs.  Additionally, Emax prepared reports assessing the impact of market, regulatory, and policy constraints associated with Ginnie Mae collateral and securities, and evaluated how those factors influence alternative program strategies and securitization structures.

[Back to the Top]
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) – Office of Housing & Competitive Sourcing (H&CS)

Asset Class: Multifamily, MHPI for the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines; Direct Loans, and Guaranteed Multifamily Mortgage Loans, Privatized Army Lodging and Unaccompanied Personnel Housing

Role: Financial Advisor – Prime Contractor and Subcontractor to Alvarez & Marsal

Size: $28 Billion+ Program

Period: 2005 – 2011

Emax has served as financial advisor to the Office of Housing & Competitive Sourcing within the Office of the Secretary of Defense by assisting in the oversight of the Military Housing Privatization Initiative (MHPI) program, assisting with the analysis of the MHPI program, providing private sector real estate finance assistance, and providing support for the federal budgetary scoring, including credit reform.

[Back to the Top]
Department of Education (ED)

Asset Class: Student Loans, Businesses, Office Buildings, and Other Commercial Real Estate Investments

Role: Valuation Advisor – Prime Contractor

Size: $100 Million +

Period: 2004 – 2009

Emax, as a prime contractor, has provided valuation advisory to the Department of Education (ED) by designing various asset management and disposition programs for ED’s complex defaulted student loan portfolio.  Emax assisted Federal Student Aid Financial Partners (FP) by developing methodologies to value business, real estate, and other assets, and provided Federal Student Aid (FSA) with the negotiation assistance and evaluation support.

[Back to the Top]
U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development (USDA RD)

Asset Class: Multifamily, Single Family, Business, Community Facility and Utility Loans and Loan Guarantees

Role: Financial Advisor – Subcontractor to Ernst & Young

Size: $20 Billion

Period: 2005 – 2007

Emax has provided recommendations to the USDA RD regarding the monitoring of its guaranteed loan portfolio and its universe of individual lenders.  Emax conducted a broad analysis of oversight and audit requirements in order to assess existing, proposed, and newly developed methodologies in the formulation of a best-practices monitoring system to meet the USDA RD’s objectives.

[Back to the Top]
U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)

Asset Class: Small Business Securities

Role: Securitized Transaction Market Outreach

Period: 2002 – 2005, 2013 – 2014

Emax most recently advised the SBA as a prime contractor in support of its 7(a) and 504/CDC Loan Guarantee programs, and engaged in market outreach with SBA secondary market participants including lenders, pool assemblers, and investors.  Furthermore, Emax conducted asset-backed securitization market research and provided SBA with findings that incorporated recommendations to improve the agency’s securitization programs.

 

[Back to the Top]
 U.S. General Services Administration (GSA)

Asset Class: Federal landholding agencies,  Single family

Role: Real Estate Support  Advisor – Prime Contractor

Period: 2014 – Present

Emax provides Real Property Sales and Support Services (RPSSS) as a prime contractor for the GSA. Emax supports GSA and other federal landholding agencies adhere to the mandated in the Presidential Memorandum “Disposing of Unneeded Federal Real Estate” issued on June 10, 2010 which focuses on cutting the operating costs of retained assets, increasing sales proceeds, and improving energy-efficiency.

[Back to the Top]