Management Consulting Services
Emax offers a broad array of management consulting services to help our clients operate efficiently and effectively with limited resources in a constantly evolving environment. Government organizations face increasing pressure to control spending while simultaneously improving services and strategic initiatives. We recognize leaders must manage their institutions for greater accountability, transparency, and spending effectiveness. We work closely with our clients to understand their organization’s internal processes, operating procedures, culture, objectives and mission in order to develop a customized approach, innovative solutions, and recommendations for improvement with a high degree of success. Our clients benefit from our staff’s in-depth knowledge in diverse disciplines as well as our commitment to provide meaningful services and products that meet or exceed their expectations.

Strategic Program Planning and Management

Emax offers program management services to help our multifaceted clients’ balance competing priorities and limited budgetary and human resources to accomplish their organizational objectives and mission.  Program management provides a global overview and framework to evaluate the optimal use of time, funds and employees to benefit the organization’s profitability or mission accomplishment.  Assessing the impact of various parameters allows Emax to evaluate competing demands and provide our clients with strategic solutions that optimize all resources.  Emax professionals work with our clients to

Review the organization’s goals and objectives;
Evaluate the organizational structure, roles and responsibilities;
Analyze internal operations and processes;
Assess strengths and weaknesses;
Review and develop recommendations for process improvements and/or roles and responsibilities.
Incorporate Best Practices
Whether it is a real estate project, lender oversight program, loan sale or financial management process, Emax works closely with its client to balance costs, schedule, and human resources among the demands of multiple organizational programs and projects to best meet the needs of the overall mission.

Credit Advisory and Credit Scoring

Emax helps federal agencies planning and operating federal lending, guarantee or loan sale programs to ensure compliance with the federal credit guidelines.  Emax is often sought out due to our expertise in Credit Advisory and federal credit reform, and the services offered are  listed below.

Determining scoring for loan sale transactions and loan modifications;
Creating financial models, and performing model review and validation;
Performing compliance review for annual budget, accounting and reporting requirements;
Implementing new credit programs;
Developing handbooks;
Developing and conducting training.
Business Process Improvement

As budgets shrink and demands for services increase Emax helps clients identify, monitor and control waste and inconsistency in their critical business processes.  Emax constantly reviews how tasks are completed and offers recommendations to streamline processes.  We also review specific processes at the request of our clients.  Many organizations do not have documented processes, and are less efficient when employees leave or rotate throughout the organization.  Emax has worked on a wide range of business process improvement projects for a variety of clients.  

Examples of services provided by Emax include:

Documentation of the project approval process from feasibility assessment to developer selection to transaction closing, including recommendations to streamline the approval process, standardize the  decision making process, conform program consideration and transaction documentation, and facilitate post-award monitoring.
Implementation of a streamlined budget planning and execution process for government guaranteed and direct loans which are subject to credit scoring requirements and must be reported appropriately.  Creation of handbooks that identify roles, responsibilities and timing for all of the tasks required to satisfy a client’s reporting requirements.
Risk Management:  Internal Controls

Emax performs internal control assessments to determine if sufficient controls are in place for current and new operations, programs, processes, and/or activities to minimize exposure to risk and as appropriate to ensure compliance with the OMB Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control. As part of the assessment, Emax uses the following approach to assess the strength of an organization’s internal controls:

Review and document the pertinent processes;
Identify potential areas of risks and for fraud;
Recommend solutions to minimize risk;
Assist in implementation of the solutions.
Typically, a report and/or written presentation outlining the current processes, findings, and recommendations are provided. Recommended solutions may include a handbook, additional checks and balances within a process, or performance benchmarks. 

Budgeting and Management Controls

Emax clients benefit from our expertise in accounting, governmental budgeting and credit scoring.  We understand the intricacies of government budget planning, execution and funding cycles and help our clients to plan and manage the limited funds they have.  We use current analytical techniques to assist clients in budget planning, execution and management.  Emax also uses a rigorous activity based approach to help clients understand their operating budgets.  Clients value Emax’s experience in internal controls and fraud detection to ensure they have sufficient procedures and systems to support their obligations as stewards of tax payer funds.

Financial Analysis and Modeling

Emax has complex financial modeling capabilities that are used to determine financial feasibility for real estate transactions, loan sale portfolio analysis, credit scoring and budget planning and execution.  Emax professionals apply advanced modeling techniques, quantitative analysis, cost-benefit and discounted cash flow analysis, optimization and simulation modeling techniques for problem solving.   We provide advice and guidance based on sound financial principles and sophisticated technical analysis.  Emax professionals also can customize sophisticated financial models and tools to help clients make decisions and automate tasks.

Project Management

Emax offers project management services and has experience managing a wide range of projects including developer selection, distressed loan sales, budget planning and execution, and post-award transaction monitoring.   Emax professionals help our clients finish projects on time and within budget by managing the process and deliverables, and facilitating communications.  Emax uses a variety of tools to keep the project on track, and to ensure all concerns have been addressed.

Handbooks, Program Guidance and Training

Emax has developed user-friendly, interactive handbooks and program guidance for many of its clients.   Emax also understands the federal agency protocols for handbook development.  We have developed handbooks and training materials for our clients including a post-transaction monitoring handbook, an MHPI Financial and Accounting Handbook, and various chapters on financial policies and procedures.

Market Outreach, Meeting and Conference Support

Emax’s can assist conducting market outreach and providing program support and guidance.  Emax has provided extensive conference and meeting support, and worked on external communication strategies for outreach to investors, developers, lenders and other key stakeholders across multiple engagements. This includes coordinating calls with investors, garnering market feedback on a variety of issues, preparing educational presentations and marketing materials.  Emax also has organized a variety of successful Industry Forums and Investor Conferences, and Lender Symposiums for its clients.

Emax also can prepare quick turnaround analysis on policy and program issues and has developed many issue memos, white papers, and presentations on new products, programs and policies for various government agencies.

Best Practices

Emax recognizes the value of best practices, and always looks for opportunities to share best practices to streamline or improve transaction execution, a process or program operations.  Emax’s work and expertise in the public and private sectors on similar types of programs allows our clients to benefit from lessons learned and industry developments.